/*  
 * $Id$
 *
 * $Copyright: (c) 2016 Broadcom.
 * Broadcom Proprietary and Confidential. All rights reserved.$
 */

			SDK Linux User Support


The Broadcom SDK can be compiled as part of a user space application, 
for development flexibility and debugging purposes. 

In this configuration, the entire driver is compiled as a user space 
library, which you can link with your application. It will provide all 
regular driver features, but at some cost in performance. 

The core of the user space support is in the Linux User Mode BDE 
(Broadcom Device Enumerator). This BDE provides all chip virtualization 
for user mode execution, which includes device PCI access, register 
address space mmapping, and interrupt virtualization. 

When running in this mode, the entire driver, including interrupt 
handling, can be debugged from user space using GDB, and you should 
never crash your machine. 

The user space support requires a couple of kernel modules to provide
the virtualization services:

linux-kernel-bde.o
------------------

source: sdk/systems/bde/linux/kernel

See the ../kernel/README file for information on the use the 
linux-kernel-bde module. 

linux-user-bde.o
----------------

source: sdk/systems/bde/linux/user/kern

The Linux user BDE implentation is comprised of two parts -- a kernel 
module, and a user space library. The linux-user-bde is the kernel 
portion and it relies upon the linux-kernel-bde module to access the 
devices in the system, and it then provides PCI, DMA, register, and 
interrupt virtualization to the user space library, which provides the 
actual BDE interface pointer. 

You must load both the linux-kernel-bde and the linux-user-bde 
modules before running your user space BCM application. 

Configurations for building the BCM diag shell application for 
specific BRCM platforms are available in the subdirectories of this
directory. For example, building the user space BCM diag shell for the 
BRCM 8245 CPCI board (BMW) is done by:
	
	cd bmw; gmake

The products of this build will be the linux-kernel-bde.o and 
linux-user-bde.o modules, and the bcm.user application.
